Hi, guys, in the last video,
you got an introduction about
how to write SQL queries.
In the next two videos,
I'm going to give you a tour of Jupyter.
Jupyter is the front end interface
we'll use in this course to interact
with our Dognition dataset,
which is kept in a MySQL database.
I told you that there are many different
types of frontend interfaces you might
encounter in your career.
Despite all these options,
Jupiter is really unique.
It was written explicitly for
collaboration, which also happens to
make it very useful for education.
What Jupyter does, is it allows me a way
to write in text, an explanation for
every query you try and help you
understand the logic behind each query.
And then you can read that text at your
own pace and try out different parts of
the query right in the same place and
look at the examples at the same time.
So I think you'll find this a very useful
way to get comfortable with SQL syntax.
Of course when you're in a company, you're
not going to be able to have me there, and
you won't be able to have my examples
right next to you, or at least,
not in the exact same place
as your writing inquiries.
So what I suggest you do is you use these
Jupyter MySQL exercises to get really
comfortable with the syntax.
Then once you're ready to be independent,
at the end of each week,
then you move to the Teradata exercises.
The Teradata interface that we use in this
course is very similar to what you would
use in a company.
And in fact, you might end up using the
exact same interface in some companies.
But it does require you to be independent,
you'll have to write your queries from
scratch and you won't have examples there.
So again, what I suggest you do, is start
with MySQL and the Jupyter interface
then move to Teradata when you're
ready to try things on your own.
I'll show you in a later video how
to use the Teradate interface, but
in the next two videos we're
going to focus on Jupyter.
And in this video in particular we're
going to focus on how to work with
the notebook within Jupyter.
So to get started,
what I want you to do, is I want you
click on one of the links in the course
website that goes directly to a notebook.
When you go to one of those links,
it's going to bring you to
a page that looks like this.
When you go to this page,
go ahead and press open Tool.
And when you press that, it's going to
bring up something that looks like this.
Now, each one of these lessons is
contained in what we call a notebook.
And you can see immediately that
the notebook has quite a lot of text.
And if I scroll down,
you'll see there are also lots of
these places for you to write code.
Here's another one.
So the way to use these notebooks or
to go through these lessons,
is to read the text and
then follow the instructions and
the questions about what to write in
these areas where you can write code.
Now just to let you know, each one of
these areas is called a cell in Jupyter.
And I tell you that because I'm going to
show you in a little bit what you can do
with some of these menu options.
And one of the menu
options is called cell.
So this menu option is for each one
of these areas where you write code.
So to give you an idea of what it will
look like when you actually use one
of these code cells, what you're going to
do is you're going to write your query.
And it'll look like this.
And to the left, you're going to see
the word In with some open brackets.
This is what it looks like
before you run your query.
When you're ready to run your query you're
going to press this button up here,
which is the arrow.
And you'll see when you hover
over it it says run cell.
When I press this you're
going to see an asterisk or
a little start that appears
in between these parentheses.
The star is present and
there as long as the query is running.
So if you're running a really long query
that takes the database a long time to do,
that star will be there
until the output is ready.
This particular query is
going to happen pretty quickly.
So when I run this,
you're going to see the star quickly, and
then right underneath it,
you're going to see the output.
Let's see what that looks like.
You see the star, and now the output.
Now when you run a query
that has a lot of output,
I want to show you a couple
of different things.
This particular query
outputted over 16,000 rows.
However, we have implemented some
safeguards in these Jupyter interfaces so
that you are less likely
to crash the system.
I told you earlier that we had
specifically designed the course, so
that you are each in groups
of about 150 students.
We want you to practice
thinking about your colleagues.
And so, when you write queries
that take a really long time, or
that take a lot resources,
it impacts your colleagues.
In this course, too,
when you run really long queries and
you take a lot of resources, it will
affect everyone else in your group of 150.
It is possible to crash the system for
your group of 150, but
we are giving you some safeguards
to at least make that less likely.
So one of the things we've done here,
is that even though the output has over
16,000 rows, if you scroll down all
the way to the bottom of this output.
You'll see that it says truncated
to display limit of 1000.
We've set this up explicitly so
that you only get 1,000 rows
at a time in your output.
Now, I wanted to show you one more thing.
If you had lots of different
columns in your output,
you would also see a bar down here,
a scroll bar down here that
lets you scroll left and right.
So, make sure you number that for
the future.
But, otherwise,
this is what a output will look like.
And you can see that it says In up here,
and IOut down here.
So, this is always where the output is.
A lot of the queries that we run in these
exercises are going to output tables
that have a lot of rows in them.
And because there are that many rows,
it takes a lot of juice for
Jupyter and
the system to keep those tables around.
So if you don't need the output,
if you're not going to learn from it, or
if you're not going to compare it to other
things you're doing, it's a good idea to
delete that output so that Jupyter
doesn't have to keep it online.
To do that, click on your output, go up to
the Cell menu that I pointed out before.
Go to Current Output > Clear.
And you can see that now the output
from this code cell is no longer there.
But I did want to show you one more
thing in that cell menu that might be
useful to you.
Let's go ahead and run the query again.
And now click on the output.
And first let me point out to you so that
you can see that we can scroll through
the output like I showed you before.
But now go to Cell >
Current Output > Toggle Scrolling.
You can see now the output no longer has
a scrollbar and it has the entire list.
So if you prefer seeing your output
that way you are welcome to do so.
But we've made the default to have
scrolling because it takes less space.
The next thing I want to show you, is what
to do if you start a query that takes
a lot of time to run and you decide
you don't want to run it anymore.
To do that, you can go up to this button.
You hover over it,
it'll say interrupt kernel.
This is basically a stop button.
And so if you are running a query and it
seems to be going forever and you decide,
you know what, I really don't know how
to end need to know the answer to this.
And you're worried about say perhaps,
crashing the system for
the rest of your group.
Go ahead and click on the query
you're running and press stop.
And you saw it said interrupt kernel, so
the other way you could do that is you
could go to this Kernel dropdown and
you could click on Interrupt.
When you do stop a query it can sometimes
take a little while to stop, so
you do have to be a little patient.
It will then output an error message or
tell you the kernel was interrupted.
And you can start all over again,
and either clear your output, or
add a new cell.
So speaking of a new cell, you've
pretty much seen everything you have to
know to be able to use these notebooks,
but
they actually have a lot more
capability than what I just showed you.
And there's no way for
us to configure these notebooks so
that it's impossible for you to edit them.
So that's a plus, in that it I'll show
you how you can use this as ways to
take notes, and
as ways to share things with each other.
That also means it's possible for
you to edit these notebooks.
Even when it may not be
to your benefit to do so.
So let me show you the good parts first.
Imagine that you wanted to take
some notes about this query.
Each one of these areas that has
code in it is called a cell, but so
are these areas that have text.
So if I click on this text,
you can see there's kind of a box
here that surrounds the text.
So this is actually a cell as well.
And any cell that has text in
it is written in what's called
markdown language.
So it's a very simple language that is
used in a lot of different programs,,
especially on the web to format text.
So what you can do is you can
actually include your own cell.
You can insert a cell yourself
that has notes in it.
So if you go to Insert,
you can say Insert Cell Above or Below.
We say, Insert Cell Above, you'll
see that it put in the cell for you.
Now you do have to tell it what kind of
input you want to put into that cell.
So if I am clicking on the cell and now I
go up here and I see that it says Code.
What that means is that this cell,
like this one, if I click on this,
you'll see it still says Code,
is configured to be able to
actually write and execute queries.
This cell, on the other hand, when I
click on it, you see it says Markdown.
So if I wanted to put my own notes into
this cell, I would need to go up to
this menu and press Markdown, and
now I can type in whatever text I want.
And I will have this for later.
You don't have to run it, but if you
want to format just like you do up here,
then you actually will run the cell.
So I am clicking on the cell and
I am pressing run again.
And now you can see that it's
formatted the same way this is.
So there are a lot of tricks you can
do to format your markdowns cells.
I'll show you in a little bit where you
can go to find out more about that.
Because it's not a major
part of this course,
I don't want to go over the details.
But I am going to show you resources where
you can find all the information you need
to know about how to use markdown
if you decide you want to.
So once you've made cells
you can move them around.
You can either use these buttons
here to move a cell up or down.
Or you can use this drop-down menu, and
you can say I'm going to cut a cell.
And then you can go to someplace
else in your notebook.
And paste it there.
So you can say, Paste Cell Above, Below,
Paste In Place, all of these options.
Feel free to play around with them.
And this will give you a nice way to be
able to take notes that you can save for
later.
Now, the down side of this, of course,
is even if you don't want to take notes,
it's very easy to mess around with these
tech cells I made for you by accident.
So, if you're clicking around and you
double-click on one of these tech cells,
that's how you start editing on
one of these markdown cells.
You'll see it suddenly
starts to look like this.
It'll look a little weird.
This is the text written
in markdown language.
And so if this happens to you,
don't worry.
Don't panic.
All you need to do is
press the run button and
it'll go back again to
looking like normal.
So just to show you that one more time, if
by accident you click on one of the text
cells and you double click, this gives
you an opportunity to edit the text cell.
So if you don't want to do that,
press the run button again and
it will look like it did when
you first received the notebook.
As you are drafting with the notebook,
Jupyter will automatically
be saving changes.
But you can also save them yourself.
So if you go up to File > Save and
Checkpoint,
that will save the workbook
as you made it.
And it will also make what
is called a Checkpoint.
Checkpoints are a specific
point in time and
what Jupyter does it saves exactly
how the notebook looks at the time.
What that allows you to do, is if you
start playing around and then mess things
up or don't like what you've done, you
can go up to File > Revert to Checkpoint.
And it will give you a list of
the different checkpoints you've made and
you can choose any one of them to
go back to where you were before.
And it will give you this option, so
you can choose to either revert or not,
as it tells you,
if you do revert it can't be undone.
So make sure if you do go back to
a checkpoint you know you want you
want to do so.
So, we'll press Cancel.
Now before I show you what the next
set of things about Jupyter,
there's a very important aspect of this
interface that you should know about.
And that is the Help.
Jupyter has a great help resource.
Two different things that you should focus
on in particular, but feel free to look
around any of these things, actually
there are three things you should know.
First of all, there's an interface tour
that I think you'll find very useful, so
I suggest you take a look at that.
But you can also look at
either this Notebook Help or
this Markdown documentation,
both of which are very, very useful.
So if we click on say Markdown Help,
it will bring you to this webpage where
it gives you all kinds of instructions
about how to use markdown.
So this is where you should
go if you want to start
playing around with how
you edit your cells.
Another thing that's very useful
is the Notebook Help, and
that's gives you all kind of sections that
tell you all about how to run a code.
The basics.
Really if you have any questions,
this is where you should go.
This is the best place to
find out any of your answers.
The last thing I want to show you before
we go our home menu Is how to save your
notebooks, or print or export them so
that you can look at them in another way.
Or so
that you can share them with each other.
And to do that, go to File.
And there are a couple of
different options for you.
So you can either download your
notebook as an iPython notebook.
And I'll show you later how you can
upload these into your home directory.
This provides a way for you guys in
the course to interact with each other and
to share queries with each other and
share what you're learning.
So that you can write
your own text here and
show each other what queries are having
and then you can help each other out.
Another thing you can do is you
can save your notebook as a PDF.
So one way to do that is to go to
the Download part of the menu and
click on PDF via LaTeX.
But this is actually not
my favorite way to do it.
Because sometimes the LaTeX
formatting is very spread out and
can take a lot of pages.
So my preferred way to do it
is to go to Print Preview,
which will give you something
that looks like this.
And this will be much more compact, and
will give you fewer
pages in your print out.
So once you get this,
you can go to File > Print.
And this next screen will look
different on everybody's computer
because everyone will have a different
configuration, and you might have a Mac or
PC, and so
this will look a little different.
But there should always be some
option to be able to print to a PDF.
So that will let you save a file for later
so that you can look at your queries or
your notes.
Or will let you print them out so that you
can look at them while you are studying.
Nice work.
You now know how to use
a Jupyter notebook.
In the next video, I'm going to show
you how you can use the home page
of your Jupiter account to make new
notebooks, rename notebooks and
share notebooks with one another.
I'll see you in the next video.